---
layout: post
title: "Review: LG V30"
date: 2017-11-07
banner_image: LG-V30.jpg
tags: [review, lg, v30, android]
---


In my opinion, LG has long been a manufacturer of sleeper hits. That is, their phones end up being quite good compared to the competition without any of the big media attention that the larger players get. In 2017, it’s much of the same story – Samsung, Google, OnePlus and some of the quickly growing Chinese manufacturers are overshadowing LG’s latest and greatest. Now, LG isn’t the complete victim here. They have a history of at times questionable QA, excessive model count that muddies the waters, and occasional lackluster support on the software side of things.

Putting all that aside though, in actuality the V30 is indeed a great phone. Let’s dive a bit deeper.

<!--more-->

One of the biggest things to focus on with the V30 is the new OLED display. LG has long had a reputation for fantastic LCD displays. But a couple years ago, Samsung made it visibly clear that OLED was the way of the future. For a variety of reasons, OLED is simply the better choice moving forward. In that regard, LG is a late bloomer. Worried about “1st gen” roughness? So far, don’t be. While LG did start fooling around with OLED with their  (plastic) POLED displays in the curved displays of the Flex and Flex 2. for the V30, the curves are gone. In it’s place is a capable  6-inch 18:9 OLED running at 1440 x 2880. Is it as good as Samsung’s? I still think Samsung’s is a tad better in the brightness arena but for all intents and purposes, it’s very close and certainly acceptable. It’s glad to see LG finally making the move.

The other highly controversial talking point is the rear mounted fingerprint reader and power button. LG has favored this design but that hasn’t made it any more loved or less hated. In reality it’s quite divisive. You either hate it or love it. I happen to fall in the camp that loves it. Combined with the double tap to wake feature, there’s no need to actually hit the power button. Add to that either facial recognition, pin code, or trusted devices and the restrictions that a rear mounted fingerprint reader bring are reduced significantly. Performance wise, it’s still one of the best. I’d put the LG fingerprint sensors above Samsung’s all day, any day. They’re easier to hit, have more area to hit, and are lightning quick. Hopefully Samsung will fix their not-so-nicely-placed fingerprint sensor by putting it somewhere else other than right next to the camera lenses — something you never want to put your fingers on.

Wrapping up the external pieces of the V30 we have an all glass design similar to the last few generations of Galaxy devices, type C port for charging, single, down-firing external speaker, water and dust resistence (IP68), and Qi wireless charging. Moving inside you’re looking at, the now “standard” 8-core Qualcomm MSM8998 Snapdragon 835 with Adreno 540 GPU, 4 GB of RAM, 64 or 128 GB (V30+) of storage, 16 + 13 megapixel rear facing cameras + 5 megapixel front facing camera. The cameras in particular are one small differentiator. Where most manufacturers are going with a 2x lens for their secondary rear facing camera, LG is bucking the trend and going with a 120 degree wide angle lens. Unfortunately, the wide angle lens does not have OIS like it’s next door neighbor. Battery size is adequate at 3300 mAh in size coupled with Quickcharge 3.0. LG claims a 50% charge in 36 minutes.

Perhaps the biggest feature to talk about regarding the LG V30 is going to be the least used feature – the higher end audio. Now I’m completely in support of LG’s initiative to bring higher quality audio to the mobile world. No one really pays attention to it anymore. That said, it’s niche. And physical ports such as the headphone jack are a dying breed. In a few more years few phones will have it and this initiative will result in not much of anything for LG in terms of marketshare. Still, with a B&O certified quad-DAC on board, audio quality is hands down better than most all phones on the market. It’s a bittersweet pill to swallow because I personally love music and appreciate attention to audio quality. But I’m also a realist. LG is not winning any wars with this.

Overall, LG took a string of almost there but ultimately short of the finish line devices and culminated in the V30. While the naming is less than impressive, the specs and actual performance are top notch for a phone of this category. The hardware is great, albeit with some design decisions that will make or break it for some, and the software is relatively clean in terms of theming goes. If you’re the type of person looking for a flagship Android device and specifically don’t want a Galaxy device, the LG V30 is one of the first alternatives you should look at.

*Thank you to Kyle Communications and Verizon for the review unit*
