---
layout: post
title: "Review: Google Pixel 2 XL"
date: 2017-12-19
banner_image: pixel2xl.jpg
tags: [review, lg, google, pixel2xl, android]
---

As we rocket towards the holiday season, a lot of you out there already have a phone of choice that you’ve committed to for at least the next 6-24 months. That said, with all of the deals around various shopping “sub-holidays”, there’s an opportunity to be had, and an increasing desire to wait until this time to pick up a new device. Your’e at least safe in a sense - this is the end of both the calendar year and the phone manufacturers’ release schedules. The next big device to look forward to won’t come until early spring by way of Samsung and the Galaxy S line. That said, there’s beens one rumor that Samsung will push their next-gen release announcement to CES (we’ll see).

<!--more-->

Today however, we’re concerned with one and only one phone, the Google Pixel 2 XL. To say it’s been a bumpy ride would be an understatement. Google and the manufacturer (LG) have had a lot to take in in regards to feedback, more often than not critical and negative. But before we get into the weeds on all that fun stuff, let’s talk about what’s good.

In terms of hardware, the Pixel 2 XL is indeed a flagship phone. While many would argue Google simply slapped a higher price tag on the Pixel series vs. the more frugal Nexus line it replaced (I’d still argue this at times), Google did make some good efforts to get their in-house hardware up to snuff with competing flagships.

The screen is large, bright, and in the 1440p range. The finger print reader on the back is one of the best on the market. The internal CPU/RAM/Storage are all fast and spacious. And finally, the camera is, despite lacking a second lens like many other flagships at this point, somehow neck-and-neck with those same flagships. This last point is a testament to Google’s aggressive and talented software chops. There is also of course some of the other minor but important things to highlight like USB type C, water and dust resistance, and more premium build quality. On paper, the Pixel XL 2 is a fantastic phone, albeit expensive.
We’re to the point now in phones that outside of a few key things that are arguably minor all things considered, there’s not much to talk about anymore, at least on the positive side. Like I said above, if you want to drop $700+ on a phone, you’ve got a good assortment of options. Depending on your needs/wants, any of those will be a suitable companion.

{% include image_full.html imageurl="/images/posts/pixel-2-xl-burn-in.jpg" title="Burn in on Pixel 2 XL" caption="Burn in on Pixel 2 XL" %}
Image Credit: [MS Power User](Burn in on Pixel 2 XL)

Perhaps increasingly more beneficial is to look at what do all of these phones do poorly or at the very least, what are the cons against them. For Google this time around there were plenty. For a $700+ phone you’d be surprised how many small issues have popped up, a lot of them revolving around the display. Burn-in/ghosting/image retention, physical key issues, unresponsive touch screen edges, speaker issues, and more have plagued the device in some capacity since release. Make no mistake, while Google wants to give you the impression they spared no expense in making this premium phone, there appears to be a shit show in the QA department. More-to the first point regarding screens though, people that have followed phones and more-so tech for a while know that Google’s screen supplier of choice (LG) has a long history of hit or miss quality.

Back in 2012 Apple released the (at that time) first-gen Retina MacBook Pros. The screens looked great. Well, they all did until the LG supplied panels started shitting the bed after 6-12 months with noticeable and generally terrible to simply atrocious ghosting and image retention issues. Samsung’s displays meanwhile were fine.

Yes. Mobile phone displays are not the same as larger laptop displays for a number of reasons. But even if we cut that example out, LG themselves have had numerous issues with their own phones over the years both in hardware and software issues. (Nexus 5X, LG G4, LG G(insert anything here) boot loop anyone?) The point I’m trying to make is, while Google certainly can deserve some flack for cutting corners, and to a point, choosing to do business with LG in this scope and at this scale given their less than stellar track record, it’s really LG who has ultimately dropped the ball.

So it seems awful, right? Well. As long as you get a good phone (which is admittedly the majority), it’s a pretty good experience. It’s stock Android. Updates are nearly instant and there isn’t any bloatware to speak of. It performs on par or better than other flagship depending on the metric you’re referring to. But is it worth the cost of admission given 1) other flagships matching or exceeding many aspects of the pixel at the same price (and even less —> OnePlus)? That part you’ll have to answer. But in my opinion, if you are seeking something more closely related to the “iPhone of Android”, the Pixel XL 2 is where it’s at. Despite some of the issues highlighted above, it’s a good phone, performs well, and provides a great Google Experience.
 
 
*Thank you to Verizon and Kyle Communications for the review unit.*
